---
title: Books 2020
layout: post
date: '2020-04-06 21:30'
headerImage: false
tag:
  - books
star: false
category: post
author: joshcarr
description: 2020 Books
published: true
---
## Year End Summary:

I only started recording strictly from March. 35 books of which 8 were fictional. Best book was 'The Making of the Atomic Bomb' for it's detail and frightening end. I read fiction books more quickly, and next year plan to read more fiction that isn't murder mysteries or similar.

The pandemic undoubtably increased my reading and that is one positive that can be taken from 2020. In 2021 I will again target at least 2 books per month, and additionally 30 books for the year. One of the challenges is finding interesting books to read so I will also start a 'to read' list.

## Books read in 2020:
This year (2020) I am attempting to read more. To keep track I'm listing the books I've read here along with short comment and notable takeaways. In no particular order.


### The Making of the Atomic Bomb, Richard Rhodes
*Mar 2020*  
It's incredible the progress to realise the progress made between 1900 and 1945 with physics. That the developed two different bombs in parallel was new to me. The suckerpunch describing the devastation was akin to the finale of Blackadder goes forth. 

### Longitude, Dava Sobel
*April 2020*  
The battle of a master craftsman and innovater to be recognised for astonishing work on developing clocks was astonishing. 

### 24 Hours at Agincourt, Michael Jones
*January 2020*  
Henry was a great leader, and war was business.

### Shoe Dog, Phil Knight
*April 2020*  
From creation to IPO, the story of NIKE. It's interesting to see change in how NIKE are now viewed from a grassroots level in the athletics community. 

### Antifragile, Nicholas Talib
*May 2020*  
Give yourself optionality.

### Daemon, Daniel Suarez
*May 2020*  
Fiction for a world being taken over by a daemon invoked upon the death of a games company founder. An eye into the importance of digital security.

### Freedom, Daniel Suarez
*June 2020* 
Sequel to Daemon. Unfortunately not as good as the first; felt lacklustre throughout and insufficiently interesting to be a page-turner.

### Black Hawk Down, Mark Bowden
*May 2020*
Other than my initial misconceptions that Black Hawk Down was just a film, this was a really great story.

### Turn the Ship Around, David Marquet 
*January 2020*
Leader-Follower to Leader-Leader. Invest and believe in people. 

### The Idea Factory, Jon Gertner
*April 2020*
The number of inventions generated by Bell labs was phenomenal. The investment in basic research feels like it created more value than current VC funding of software companies. 

### Ignition, Kevin Anderson
*April 2020*
Fictional story of terrorist attacks on Nasa rocket launches being thwarted by an injured astronaut in the (wrong) right place at the right time.

### As I Walked Out One Midsummer Morning, Laurie Lee
*May 2020*
Laurie Lee goes on a colourful adventure tramping through first southern England then Spain. He experiences the outbreak of civil war; the hardship of poorer classes in the 30s is sobering.

### Trouble with Lichen, John Wyndham
*May 2020*
Fiction tale about the discovery of 'antigerones' to extend life. Some interesting ethical considerations...

### Never Split the Difference, Chris Voss
*May 2020*
I think this book will pay for itself many times over.

### The Map that Changed the World, Simon Winchester
*June 2020*
The story of William Smith traipsing around England and mapping the strata. Much more readable than I expected and enjoyable. Surveyor in the early 1800s sounded fun.

### Why I'm No Longer Talking To White People About Race, Renni Eddo-Lodge
*June 2020*
There is a problem and I'm part of it. I was hoping for more actionable points at the end of the book.

### The Drunkard's Walk, Leonard Mlodinow
*July 2020*
Statistics is necessarily intuitive so do the math. 

### The Narrow Road To The Deep North, Richard Flanagan
*July 2020*
Fictional tale about the horrors in a Japanese PoW camp and following the later lives of those involved.

### Bad Blood, John Carreyrou
*August 2020*
[Audio book] - The tale of Theranos. Stunning account of lies, deceipt, and groupthink leading to the rise and fall Theranos. 


### Everest The First Ascent: The untold story of Griffith Pugh, Harriet Tuckey
*August 2020*
A great story of the success of evidence driven experimentation. Includes high altitude physiological research leading to success on Everest. Also reapplied to the Mexico City Olympic games.

### The Men who United the States, Simon Winchester
*August 2020*  
A sweeping tale of America's development. Canals, roads, rail, the internet. My favourite section was a scam surrounding planted gems solved by geologist Clarence King.


### Now you see her, Heidi Perks
*August 2020*  
Fictional. Some moral issues with this book. Not sure which side I was on. 


### Love and War in the Appennines, Eric Newby
*September 2020*  
PoW in Italy at the time of their armstice. The locals helped hide our plucky escapee through the summer months in the mountains of the appenines. Ultimately a fruitless endeavour. 


### Energy, Vaclav Smil
*September 2020*  
Interesting book that bounced around. An appreciation for power consumption / power generation from different sources was useful.


### A Piano in the Pyrenees, Tony Hawks
*September 2020*  
Highly amusing. Not many books actually make you chuckle. Life in the Pyrenees sounds okay.


### Backroom Boys, Francis Spufford
*October 2020*  
Tales of British engineering. My personal favourites were the development of the Atari games in Cambridge and the start of VoDafone


### Bedside Stories, Michael Foxton
*October 2020*  
Life as a junior doctor sounds grim. Makes my life seem easy.


### The Tattooist of Auschwitz, Heather Morris
*October 2020*  
Horrific. A gripping story. I think it would have been better without the 5% dramatic license. 

### Factfulness, Ana, Hans, and Ola Rosling
*Novemeber 2020 Audiobook*  
There are many take home points from this. The world is a bad place - but it's not as bad as we might imagine. I feel like one's impression of the world comes from what is learnt at school, and appreciating change since then is challenging.

### Revelation, Bill Napier
*November 2020*  
Fictional tale based on the supposition a scientist in the Manhatten project discovered something that should very much be kept a secret. Enjoyable story lines, but quite long, and took too long to conclude.

### The Flying Scotsman, Graeme Obree
*November 2020*  
Autobiography of a phenomenal athlete and innovater. I had not realised before the troubled life that Obree had, or the swings in form. It is a shame he was not better recognised for his achievements at the time.

### The Lynmouth Flood Disaster, Eric Delderfield
*November 2020*  
This was the Boscastle before Boscastle. 9" rain in a matter of hours is terrifying. Likely to happen again. Questionable how well prepared the next location that becomes victim to this is.

### The Wright Brothers, David McCullough
*December 2020*  
Takeaways are that the development took years of incremental improvement and that they used wing warping not ailerons for control. Remarkable achievement entirely bootstrapped. One wonders what equivalent opportunities still exist like this.

### Doors Open, Ian Rankin
*December 2020*  
Fiction revolving around a rich businessman stealing artwork then becoming entangled in the criminal world. Slight whodunnit vibes. Enjoyable quick read.

### The Spies of Winter, Sinclair McKay
*December 2020*  
The story as GCHQ emerges from WW2 and faces the new threat from communism, while at the same time coping with the collapse of the empire. Many great minds devoted themselves to this invaluable code breaking which must have been exasperating work under stressful conditions. The reminder of how Turing was treated after the war is sobering.

### A Life on Our Planet, David Attenborough
*December 2020*  
To me this reads as a tragedy waiting to happen for I am unconvinced humanity will act before it is too late. I am, however, optimistic that the ideas of billions of people will navigate us through the mess ahead. 









