---
title: Books 2022
layout: post
date: '2021-12-29 21:30'
headerImage: false
tag:
  - books
star: false
category: post
author: joshcarr
description: 2022 Books
published: true
---

## Summary:
So begins another year, once again 2 books / month is the target. I'd like, again, to read a few more classics and also more history. 

## Reading list:
* No surrender


### Good Data, Sam Gilbert
*Jan 2022*  
An optimist's guide to our digital future. A reasonable take on the legitimacy of big-tech and the value of data. Most interesting sections around the development of 'Bought by Many' and how they looked into this. 

### The Fell, Sarah Moss
*Jan 2022*  
An tale which captures well the zeitgeist of the COVID era. Enjoyed it and got the year off to a flying start.

### Mabel, Olive, and Me, Andrew Cotter
*Jan 2022*  
Bought this for Emma for Christmas, enjoyed it. Easy reading. Almost makes me want a labrador. 

### Born to Run, Christopher McDougall
*Feb 2022*  
The mix of adventure story and running made this a fun read. The Tarahumara clearly love their running. I agree with the points on foot strength being important, but I think it's hard with the Next% shoes nowadays to say that minimalism remains faster. 

### The Design of Everyday Things, Don Norman
*Feb 2022*  
Marginally more academic than I expected but still readable. The later chapters around design fitting into a commercial environment were interesting. Amusingly I struggled with extracting a key from a hire car while reading this book; there was a subtle trick required. I blame the design.

### Under the Wig, William Clegg
*Mar 2022*  
In the same vein as the Secret Barrister. Quite interesting stories, especially in representing clients defending charges of war crimes.

### Empire of Pain, Patrick Keefe
*Mar 2022*  
Impressively complete story of the Sackler family and its role in the opioid crisis. Especially interesting in light of recent visit to SF, a city clearly struggling with this.

### The Lonely Skier, Hammond Innes
*Apr 2022*  
Took a long time for me to clock that this was fiction. Good read.

### Gironimo, Tim Moore
*Apr 2022*  
Our protagonist Tim Moore equips himself with a 1914 era bike, complete with reversible rear wheel to change gear, and proceeds to follow the brutal 1914 Giro route. The journey is arduous but not nearly as hard at the genuine 1914 edition. Those men were undeniably Hard.

### Swim, Bike, Run: Our Triathlon Story, A & J Brownlee
*Apr 2022*  
Astonishingly honest account of the Brownlees up till 2012. They did train exceedingly hard and they understood what was needed to 'win' triathlon. 

### Regions of the heart, David Rose & Ed Douglas
*May 2022*  
Biography of climber Alison Hargreaves who died on K2 in 1995. Tragically her son died in the Himalaya recently. 

### Traders, Guns & Money, Satyajit Das
*May 2022*  
Never really knew what derivatives were. Marginally better appreciation now. Think this might have been a fairly cynical take on the world. Amusing nonetheless.

### The boy who shot down and airship, Michael Green
*June 2022*  
The freedom of growing up pre-'technology' and under the shadow of war.

### Seabiscuit, Laura Hillenbrand
*June 2022*  
Depression-era race horse. Though light on details the training regime of these horses is interesting. 

### Double Agent, Tom Brady 
*July 2022*  
Turns out this was a sequel... still, a good read and will forever be the book I read at the track before running sub-4.

### Paper Tiger: Inside the real China, Xu Zhiyuan 
*July 2022*  
A series of short essays about China. The most interesting, for me, were around the Beijing 2008 Olympics and the perception of the games.

### The Four Minute Mile, Roger Bannister 
*July 2022*  
Hot topic. I like his approach to athletics. He must have been incredibly talented to run so fast of such light training. The amount of rest before some major races (5days!) is impressive.

### Moneyball, Michael Lewis 
*August 2022*  
How stats transformed baseball player selection and the woes of trusting human judgement on performance. Intriguing application of economics to sport. Especially pleasing to go to SF giants ball game while this was going on.

### Penguins Stopped Play, Harry Thompson 
*August 2022*  
Clearly a man that really loved cricket and dedicated his holidays and finances towards enabling his motley crew to play all around the world. A few laughs scattered within.

### Vaxxers, Sarah Gilbert & Catherine Green 
*September 2022*  
Development of the AZ vaccine. Good background on how such rapid development was achieved. Explained the 'half dose' complexity I had wondered about.

### Packing for Mars, Mary Roach 
*September 2022*  
A scattergun approach to covering questions around space exploration. Of particular interest were the comments on motion sickness and 'waste disposal'.

### How to play your best golf, all of the time, Tommy Armour 
*September 2022*  
A retro golf book from pre-internet days. From what I understand the basics remain the same. 

### Pandemic 1918, Catherine Arnold 
*October 2022*  
Wanted to read this since the COVID pandemic. Intriguing to see the similar reactions from society. The devastating loss of (young and healthy) lives. Felt a little scattered and unclear to the origins or the ending of the pandemic.

### The Rise and Fall of Emile Zatopek, Richard Asquith
*October 2022*  
I knew of Zatopek's training style and his infamous triple Olympic gold, but I'd not realised his involvement in cold war politics and general good mannered nature. A good read from the author of 'Feet in the clouds'.

### Ghosts of K2, Mick Conefrey  
*October 2022*  
There is something about the brutality of K2 which hooks you. The history of Everest is perhaps better known, but the history of K2 has equally interesting tales such as Gilkey and Dudley Woolfe.

### Airframe, Michael Crichton  
*November 2022*  
Accidental fiction read. It was enjoyable with suitable twists, turns, and suspense. 

### The Every, Dave Eggers  
*November 2022*  
Dystopian future where big tech continually makes a success of absurd suggestions. Orwellian at times. It was a good read, if a little long.

### The Colditz Story, P. R. Reid 
*November 2022*  
Colditz housed the troublesome prisoners, thought to be impossible to escape from. This book covers the first years of the war and escape attempts (successes and failures) culminating in the escape of the author himself. 

### The Ascent of Rum Doodle, W. E. Bowman 
*December 2022*  
Parody on the 50s era mountaineering expeditions to the Himalayas. To climb Mt Blanc is one thing, to climb Rum Doodle is quite another.

### Black Gold, Jeremy Paxman 
*December 2022*  
The history of how coal made Britain. Coal was destined to be replaced by oil and gas for their higher energy density and easier transport. Nonetheless coal played a pivotal part in Britain's history.
