---
title: USA Jan 2022
layout: post
date: '2022-02-07 22:03'
headerImage: false
tag:
  - travel
star: false
category: travel
author: joshcarr
description: SF & Boulder
published: true
---
<div markdown="1" class="contentCont" id="scroll">

A first plane journey in 2 years on a work trip to the US. Locations happened to be San Francisco & Boulder.

## San Francisco
My third visit to SF and every time I am appalled at the homeless / drugs problem in Downtown. After landing I enjoyed a traverse of the city, through Golden Gate park down to Ocean Beach for sunset. Guided by the one and only Mark Nelson & Sid. Catching the final few minutes of the NFL 49'ers vs Green Bay was excellent. 

Keeping with the solar theme I ran up Twin Peaks for sunrise. Around Civic centre comatose bodies litter the streets with many it is a struggle to identify signs of life. That there is a refugee style setup is, in itself, tragic. Twin Peaks was lovely and a nice hill. 

## Boulder
Endurance athletes love Boulder, they say. My stay was extended, for work reasons, and this allowed some excellent opportunities for fun.

### Friday
Slightly early finish on Friday and straight out to Flagstaff Road. Boulder nestles against the front range and excellent trails lead to some impressive views. I set out to run Green Mountain. The American's excelling, as ever, with their naming. On this occassion it was snowy white. 

### Saturday
The closest ski resort to Boulder is Eldora. Though it has a reasonable downhill area, I elected for some XC skiing. The nordic trails at Eldora were surprisingly hilly; probably a net positive ahead of Engadin Ski Marathon in March.

Coincidentally the road to Eldora runs parallel to Magnolia Road, of great fame in Running with the Buffaloes. This dirt road runs for 7.5miles (15 for the full out n back) rolling through the Colorado plains. I managed a meagre 8.5miles. A Bison farm, and an intersection with Lazy Drive were highlights.

### Sunday
When in Rome. So I went downhill skiing. Colorado has trended toward conglomerates like Epic and Ikon. Having neither of those passes meant the 'main' areas were extremely expensive. I tried Loveland which was both a little closer, and pleasantly light on the wallet. I found the terrain excellent, especially skiers right of the fast quad. There were extensive mogul and tree skiing options. 

## Notes on food
There were too many good food restuarants to list them all, particular highlights were Blackbelly, Upslope, and Illegal Pete's.

Photos to be added another day...

</div>
