---
title: Lake Tahoe 2023
layout: post
date: '2023-05-30 21:31'
headerImage: false
tag:
  - travel
star: false
category: travel
author: joshcarr
description: Memorial Day weekend at Lake Tahoe
published: true
---
A conference either side of memorial day made a nice sandwich to fit a weekend in the mountains in California in. After flying in from LA on Friday morning I made my way, along with throngs of others, toward Lake Tahoe on Friday evening. The drive was long, but especially the last hour through the mountains was pretty. Over the Donner pass the volume of snow at the resorts was astonishing given it was nearly June. 

At dusk I arrived to Tahoe City. More a village than a city. Most accurate would be a linear settlement, squeezed between Lake Tahoe and the mountains behind. 

On Saturday I had intended to hire a bike but the road biking on the lake front was busy and on poor roads. I was advised against riding a lap of the lake. Mountain biking, usually a great option in the summer, was not yet open due to flooding from snowmelt. With this it seemed like skiing might be a better option and so I headed up to Palisades (previously Squaw Valley) to check it out. Unsurprisingly the snow was soft (it was warm) but there was lots of it (they had an insane winter). From Palisades I ran a 10miler on the Truckee river trail. Gentle inclines were a timely reminder that Tahoe is up at ~6200ft altitude.

Sunday I rose early, parked at the front and bought my ticket for Palisades. Open from 8am till 2pm I was on the first lift and cruising groomers for the first hour. The snow was sticky in places and hadn't refrozen. A special technique could be employed to 'push' the snow around rather usual methods of turning. As the day warmed and the snow softened the skiing on steeper terrain became the main goal. There were many highlights, but KT-22, from GNAR fame, was near the top along with the competition moguls set. 

With skiing over at 2pm there was plenty of time to get in a long run. Chris Olley and I ran along Billionaire Row and the full East Shore Trail, all of which was a delight. 

Monday was another travel day, but before this I made it out for a run on the Tahoe rim trail (TRT) until its path was lost over a snow field. New North Face trail shoes were on point. A final activity before heading back to the Bay was making it out onto the lake on a SUP to get that alternative perspective.